that's uh you know the veganism um in a
lot of ways attract some of the most you
know deranged and you know lost people
in society you don't eat enough I feel
like even for me and we said this in the
last video you know I was looking at the
time that I found you know youtube and
veganism on youtube I was looking for
something something bigger a higher
power something to be a part of you know
and I might be one of the most lost
souls on the YouTube here I mean I think
activism in that traditional sense of
you know holding rallies and stuff I
just don't I don't know if it fits in
the world we live in today you know
there's just too much going on um it's
ooh be so hard to get that kind of the
right media coverage for something like
that um it seems like a waste of time
not only that the people that are
willing to go out and do that I'm gonna
venture off to say that a lot of them
are wack jobs you know like the guy that
doesn't believe in prison or the you
know organizers for direct action
everywhere you know there's it's kind of
there's no difference there yeah I could
be a complete idiot for saying this and
this is just a thought but maybe
promoting veganism should be thought of
less as activism and more as lifestyle
consumerism I'm trying to kind of just
be realistic with the world that we live
in um you know would it be useful to try
to have real political influence whether
it's getting tax breaks you know pass
for vegan products or trying to you know
raise taxes for um you know companies
that are producing non vegan products
and stuff I mean I think you know those
just two quick examples yeah maybe
that's effective you gotta have the
right people to do it I'm going to
venture off to say that the majority of
us is vegans but also but also but also
the question is when right like the type
of change talking about let you know
Israel is supposedly at seven percent
seven percent vegan but yeah it is to go
from zero to seven and one generation is
a huge change right so i don't know
maybe they'll reach ten percent
okay when you're ten percent of the
population maybe then you can bring
about some of those changes but like
most countries in the world were nowhere
near so that's also a question is like
the tactics change in the priorities
change as you change as the people you
know the constituency you've got changes
and you know and also hopefully the
percentage of vegans who are whack jobs
as you say to use your term whack job
hopefully that declines just because
you're growing and you're getting more
people committed who are at least normal
people maybe maybe wonderful people or
what have you I'm gonna mention
something out of political history here
that's that to me is interesting like
nobody knows this this is not a
well-known thing from political science
um before Cole marks became famous the
key at a time in his life where he was
not yet famous there was another guy who
used the word communist and like if he
had remained famous like if Karl Marx
had died or just didn't get famous then
like history would have gone in a
different direction and so hit this
other guy's name was Louis Auguste Blanc
II and his followers were called Blanc
East's so and they did use they call
themselves communists but today again
communism completely changed when Karl
Marx got famous because he became the
most famous guy in that but actually
there was a time when Karl Marx referred
to these other people the followers of
Louie donkey and he said oh no they're
the real Communists and like what Marx
was doing was just academic but monkey
this is why I mentioned him his
fundamental difference from Karl Marx
and most of the left-wing people at that
time was that he said no no this stuff
with a protest this stuff with like
marching in the streets this is
horseshit it's [ __ ] and it gets
everyone put in prison it accomplishes
nothing you know like maybe you ruin
like you wreck some public property or
something you get you get covered in the
newspapers for one day and then you will
go to jail and nothing changes his model
of social action this is the term he
used so you can see the seal this is
popular for a short time a button what
he said was no no no if you want social
change the best method of organization
is conspiracy
and it's a theory that is so brilliantly
beautifully horrendously believable and
it's like look like in our own times who
has changed history more the people who
did the street protests for um occupy
wall street or the conspiracy who killed
JFK whoever you imagine doesn't matter
different people put the other but there
was a conspiracy involved various people
involve the CIA or whatever doesn't
matter whatever conspiracy we mentioned
the tragic thing about history is that
most of the time in any century you can
see that changes brought about by
conspiracies who do you think changes
things more you know like the meat and
dairy industry they're organized
lobbyists or some vegans having protests
so you know the suggestion from Blanc e
and this this totally different version
of communism he said no no we don't need
a bunch of crazy people protesting in
the streets we don't need a bunch of
violent idiots with guns we need to
build a conspiracy of highly educated
people who have respectable jobs so
someone who's a lawyer and works in the
government who just secretly joins our
team you know whatever any job the guy
who works at the gas station just all
kinds of different isolated people who
seemingly have nothing in common who
live in society who wear a suit and tie
go to work every day but they're a
member of this conspiracy for change
let's say all of history would be
different if you know this was what this
is what communists had embraced was of
you because ultimately what it what it
entails is the same way I know why is
the oil and gas industry so powerful why
is the cigarette industry so powerful
why is the against ripple I mean
conspiracy he doesn't mean it just in
the limited sense of a criminal activity
he is talking about a form of of
organizing a political movement and I
mean the other thing about that is
everyone who's a member of the
conspiracy gets to live a normal life
you know I'm not going to tell you who
killed JFK but I'm gonna tell you sling
for sure they owned a ranch and a car
and they have a wife and a kids if they
want them
lived a normal life they didn't put
their necks on the line they didn't live
in a cave well you know like communist
revolutionaries like a lot of them
literally had to live in a cave in the
jungle you know like they didn't live
around a campfire they didn't live in
poverty they lived completely
comfortable bourgeois lives and they
changed the history of the world now
look this is not about communism I'm not
telling five of the barbarism what's
interesting me is that veganism it does
interest and it does recruit you know
respectable professional people know you
already see that you don't see it on
youtube because those people don't want
to ruin their lives by making fools of
sodium on YouTube you get to see crazy
people like freely you get to see the
neo-nazis you get to see all these
different extremes it is what it is but
they're out there and I know because a
lot of them are writing the email so
that's also interesting to me is to say
look there are alternatives and you know
we're not the first generation in
history to look around and say hey maybe
marching through the streets is not the
most effective use of our time
especially if you're already an
architect you're already a lawyer even
if you just have a steady job as a bus
driver you know here in Canada bus
drivers are paid quite well you know
probably your capacity to make a
positive difference in the world is not
going to be marching on the streets
holding signs so yeah those were
questions already being asked 200 years
ago and we're still asking the day may
very well work and I'm going to relate
it to what I ended the last conversation
we have imagined if the local police
department fire department the local
hospitals the local doctors the local
school teachers imagine it was just some
of them were vegan um I think I I don't
know I actually really liked what you
said there what was his name again the
French Louie Augusta blankie blankie is
last name yeah yeah yeah I think you
can't present ourselves as conspiracist
yeah I know I know the word the word
conspiracy is frightening for real
reason but I think I mean the other
sense
which I would use it this is not nothing
too clunky but i think the other kind of
conspiracy we get into in our culture is
at any school you go to you know some of
the teachers smoke cigarettes yeah but
they're trying to hide it they'll never
smoke in front of the kids now I don't
think there's a law look I don't think
the government decreed that I don't
think their boss would directly fire
them but their boss should probably talk
to them like look you can't i understand
you haven't quit smoking but you gotta
you know you got to go up on the roof or
something you have to you know and I've
seen that like I've seen that even at
schools for adults I was at a school in
Germany um you know learning German and
the youngest people there were
University students the oldest people or
whatever 50 was all adult students but
still the teachers who smoked you know
what would try to hide it I think that's
also a kind of conspiracy and I that's
you know I hope within my lifetime we
start to see that with veganism where
it's like oh look you know you still eat
need uh okay don't do it in front of the
kids you know and like it's shallow and
it's deep at the same time because once
people recognize that it's wrong it
doesn't mean I'm gonna fire you like you
know like you smoke cigarettes you're my
employee look I'm gonna try to work this
out but you and I have to have a common
understanding this is something bad this
is something unfortunate this is
something we as a society are trying to
manage in our transition and the
transition is you know when you watch
[ __ ] Star Trek I don't watched I
don't like when you watch Star Wars any
of these you know in the future nobody's
smoking cigarettes right yeah it's a
really deep assumption even though Star
Wars is shallow don't get me wrong but
this reflects you know okay we're going
through a transitional period we smoked
for a couple hundred years we figured
out tobacco is bad for us there's some
kind of transition and like whatever I
mean in the future all this stuff is
going to exist in reality right here
right yeah yeah yeah buddy you're what
you're saying yeah yeah but I mean to me
like that analogy nakeds with cigarettes
and eat meat future but to me that's
another kind of conspiracy we engage it
we're just like look we all admit this
is wrong we all admit this is a problem
so now how can we do something positive
about it and you know it's a kind of
conspiracy it's a kind of you know
cooperative effort even if it's just you
know the different teachers at the
school making an excuse well mr.
Schuester goes down the hallway and
smoke some fire escape it's a conspiracy
of sorts